the ACL is important in so many athletic
movements for some examples let's go to
pro soccer player Stuart Holden now
let's break down how the ACL functions
as we play the games we love if you
missed our video introducing the ACL
click here for some basic info otherwise
you already know that it helps to
stabilize the knee in both forward and
backward translation and rotation here's
how the ACL functions when you run when
your leg is on the ground and your
bearing weight the tibia moves forward
on the femur then returns back to
neutral when your leg is off the ground
an intact ACL will help keep the forward
shift of the tibia in check during your
stride when your ACL is injured the
tibia will move too far forward which
puts stress on the secondary stabilizers
of the knee when you're cutting or
pivoting you're often planting your lead
foot hard on the ground stopping
abruptly and then propelling yourself in
another direction when you plant your
foot three large forces are introduced
on your ACL these are internal rotation
dynamic valgus and anterior translation
if your muscles are weak or your
technique is poor these same forces can
cause an ACL injury when training focus
on building strengthen your core and leg
muscles and developing a sound sense of
body control check out our video on ACL
injury prevention to learn some
exercises that can help keep you in the
game when kicking and throwing having
stability in your plant leg is essential
for generating power first he plants his
left leg firmly when the knee is fully
extended
there are several structures working
together to provide stability when each
of these structures are in good shape
they work in unison to ensure that his
body weight and momentum transfer
efficiently to the ball if your ACL is
injured the instability in your knee
will decrease your ability to generate
power when jumping your hips and knees
flex to position yourself for maximum
take up your body weight is shifted
behind you which puts stress on the
stabilizers of your knee next during
propulsion your body is transferring all
of this built-up energy into the ground
a fully functioning ACL will provide the
stable springboard your body needs to
transfer force in the most efficient
when the ACL is damaged the extra stress
is distributed to the secondary
stabilizers of the knee which may lead
to other injuries thanks for stopping by
see you next time it ready set met
you